thank you very much everybody for coming
today my name is Dougal Ballentine I'm a
solutions architect with amazon web
services I work in our high-performance
computing group means we focus on you
know customers are trying to build
really cool interesting projects that
have a lot of high performance computing
each storage needs and network needs EBS
is one of my favorite products I spent a
lot of time playing with EBS trying to
get the most performance out of it for
our customers and so it's my pleasure
today to do the EBS deep dive we're
going to be covering an overview of EBS
we're going to go into all of the
components of EBS and how they relate to
you as customers using them we're going
to cover volumes snapshots best
practices around volumes and snapshots
we'll talk about encryption one of the
great capabilities of EBS and then we'll
make time for Q&A we'll hopefully try
and make time for five to ten minutes of
Q&A at the end so let's start with the
overview of VBS 0 for most builders AWS
is getting and go and that applies to
EBS as well you can typically just
launched an instance attach an EBS
volume maybe 20 gigabytes 50 gigabytes
store your data on that volume and
you'll never need to worry about what
you're doing with it you'll typically
get the most performance out of it due
to things like general-purpose volumes
where we have burst capability and you
don't need to worry about any other
settings around you know queue depth or
the capabilities of the volume itself
but there are times where you need to
know more about EBS it helps when you're
building something when you're truly
architecting a solution on top of AWS
but you understand some of the reasons
you might choose one volume type over
another or understanding how to make
sure snapshots are the right components
you're using or how to make sure
snapshots are being taken in the correct
way so you get the most out of the
service so a normal hard drive i sadly
have committed most of these things to
memory over the years because i used to
build storage arrays and you need to
work out the rotational speed or the
throughput volumes or the I ops of a
volume if you get it wrong a raid5 array
is very poor performing and next thing
you know your people asking you why
their application doesn't perform
fortunately the EBS team knows an awful
lot about hard drives in fact they take
away all of the undifferentiated heavy
lifting
hang out the hardware and making sure
the hardware is looked after and they
expose that as a service something you
can then consumed with some very simple
parameters to make it possible to have
some different configurations on top of
your systems that being said it's very
important to understand EBS is not just
hard drives EBS is a service it's
fundamentally more than just a drive
attached to your ec2 instance so it's
network block storage as a service and
I'm going to reiterate this several
times as a service this enables us to do
things with EBS you just can't do with a
block device attached to a server
attached to your instance it's designed
for five nines of availability so it's
designed to be available a lot of the
time that's a really high availability
number EBS volumes attached directly to
ec2 instances in the same availability
zone so when you launch an instance into
let's say for example Us East 1a you
would create an EBS volume in the same
availability zone or AZ and then you can
attach it to the same instance that you
just launched it also has the capability
to do snapshots point in time copy and
also incremental copies thereafter of
your data which is stored in s3 and that
data once it's stored in s3 gets the
same durability benefits the s3 provides
customers so 11-9 to durability and then
you can do things with the snapshots
like create new volumes in another
availability zone or even copy volumes
across to another region or share the
snapshot with another account if you
want to move data between one account in
another account a little bit more about
EBS too just to reiterate it's a service
it's not easy to its independent of ec2
its service that you attach to an ec2
instance it operates inside the ec2
world if you will but it's not easy to
it's a service team on its own and their
goals are set for the EBS service so we
talked about goals it has regional and
AZ availability goals all EBS volumes
and that means all the volume types
magnetic and SSD based are designed for
five nines of availability and just to
give some numbers around the scale of
the platform today there's over two
million volumes create
per day and that that's a staggering
amount of volume create and when you
realize what you can do with that you
could just create a one terabyte volume
or a 16 tire by volume and within a
couple of seconds have it attached it's
pretty phenomenal so a few definitions
before we get too far into the
presentation I think it's important that
we set some definitions everyone knows
we're talking about the same thing for
the EBS service so I ops input and
output operations per second it's
typically a number and this is more
associated with things like provisioned
I ops where you might choose to have a
number of provision I ops for your
volume 8,000 for example throughput the
read and write rate to storage and this
is something that's typically discussed
when we talk about what a volume is
capable of providing so for example 320
megabytes a second for a provision
tie-ups volume or what the instance is
capable of achieving instances have
different capabilities latency the
amount of time it takes for a request to
be completed and this is important to
understand we share these metrics with
you in cloud watch so you could take a
look at the performance of your storage
system and make decisions around whether
you're using it effectively or if you've
got the volumes appropriately sized
capacity pretty easy one the volume of
data that's stored in gigabytes and we
announced last year and launched since
the last time we did the evf stock you
can add you up to 16 terabytes in one
volume so it's very easy to create a
large amount of storage and quickly
attach it to an ec2 instance and then
the block size and the size of i/o that
you're sending to the device or the size
of I oh that's being measured by EBS now
EBS measures I ops that's the primary
measure it uses when it's looking at the
performance of the volume and those I
ops are typically measured in 256
kilobytes and we actually do something
called io merging to make it possible
for you to get more iOS even if you're
not doing 256 and there's a future talk
the one actually future talk talk right
after this so folks are interested going
even deeper and EBS but we'll do
performance on EBS at an even lower
level so before we get into the actual
volumes how the volume types operate the
different types of volumes are available
I think it's important to take a moment
to talk about volume management now
because volumes are resources like
everything else in AWS it's actually
worth taking a moment to think about
how am I going to manage my volumes what
will I do with the volumes as I'm
creating them so the first thing is
tagging so for folks who are not tagging
instances I'm not tagging volumes today
this is my first to ask of you if you
will please tag you should tag
everything you could do today I think 10
tags that doesn't count the ones that
are automatically added if they've been
created by cloud information that
they've been created by auto scaling add
tags everywhere tags enable you to them
very easily find sort keep track of the
purpose of a volume why it was created
possibly what application stack its
associated with is it production data or
is it dev test data is it a scratch
volume so it's very important to tag
volumes that were Mabel you in the
future to go through the worst thing you
can have in your in CC to console from
my perspective is a whole bunch of
unattached volumes they just sit there
with a little blue icon you're not sure
what they are and the really hard thing
is the only way to work out what they
are is to go and find an ec2 instance
attach the volume look at the volume
you're like up scratch data delete
volume and then that's kind of a lengthy
process if you have a lot of volumes the
Delete on termination flag so this is a
rather interesting thing that I wanted
to highlight so try and try and catch
our customers who don't realize this
typically when you have an ec2 instance
and you have EBS backed instance so it's
using an EBS route volume the Delete on
terminate flag is set to yes for that
volume that means that when the instance
is deleted the volume is automatically
deleted so relationship between the two
so that when something changes that they
keep track of it for you if you've got a
data volume attached to that ec2
instance you've added an extra volume
maybe for some more data and you don't
have the Delete on terminate on that and
maybe you have it in an auto scaling
group or you're launching a lot of these
instances those volumes will stay there
when the instance is terminated you'll
very quickly discover you may be about
20 30 or more volume sitting there
unattached instances and this persisted
story so it stays there it's designed to
stay there like we built it so that when
you want it to stay there it stays so it
will stay around unless you look after
it so we go back to volume management
please please do that and you should
really have an approach on this so i
mentioned scratch volumes tag things
that you know in the future what you
want to do with the volume
so volume initialization what happens or
what is the state of a volume once you
create it so in previous years I would
talk about pre warming at some point in
the presentation what I want to talk
about now is the fact that we don't
recommend pre warming for our volumes
there's been a lot of work done in the
service and that's the important thing
it's a service so you don't notice these
things until we tell you but you now
create a volume and you should just be
able to use that volume straightaway
that volume is ready to go volumes are
stored from snapshots there's a lazy
load of data from s3 so in some cases
although I will say it's quite rare you
may want to read ahead on the volume to
get that data in a little bit quicker
but you know it's typically not
recommended either because you're going
to spend time reading into a volume that
you don't really need to read into so
the different volume types today we have
three volume types on on EBS we have
magnetic volumes which are the original
volumes when the service launched we
have general-purpose SSD which we
consider our default volume type and
I'll talk a little bit around why we
consider our default and why you should
hopefully be using it as well and then
we have provisioned I ops which is the
volume type focused a name and enabling
you to give a very precise definition of
performance you expect from the volume
you can dial in the I ops in the size
for things like tier 1 databases and
mission-critical applications you want
to run on top of the system so let's
start with the general purpose SSD
volumes so general purpose SSD I think
is a really unique piece of technology
that if you've spent time working on
storage subsystems if you've actually
had to rack and stack arrays this is
really cool it's a volume that has a
baseline performance so you know what
the volume will deliver along with the
capability to burst substantially higher
on smaller volume sizes so this means
you don't need to over provision your
storage capacity to get the performance
you're looking for because it's rare
that someone has an application that
runs 24 7 flat out if it does then
there's probably a different volume type
you want to configure and here you get
access to a significant a significant
amount of I ops and throughput when the
volume is still quite small so every
p to volume starts out with a hundred I
ops baseline and I'm going to talk about
something called a credit bucket and how
the burst works in a little bit more
detail and you get three I ops per
gigabyte so you should be able to
provision up to 10,000 I ops on seven
hundred gigabytes if memory serves me
correct through food is up to 160
megabytes a second and we'll talk about
that a little bit around the fact that
through Putin I ops although related are
two different properties of the volume
latency is designed for single digit
millisecond latency and it has a
performance target of ninety-nine
percent such performance of I ops so 99
percent of the time were striving to
provide all of the IELTS and we consider
it the volume that most workloads will
default to on AWS so a little bit to
understand how the burst and baseline
works so when we launched the GP two
volumes they were up to one terabyte in
size and up to one terabyte would give
you 1000 I alt sorry three thousand
items and once you've created that that
volume that that was as large you go
when we launch 16 terabytes it's now
possible to have a volume larger than
our burst bucket was providing and so
what we're trying to do here is
illustrate and some of the EBS engineers
always get annoyed because the graph is
not to scale but what we're trying to
illustrate here is the fact that as you
increase your volume size from 0 to 1
that increases the size of baseline
IELTS or increases the amount of
baseline I ops you have available but
you still have access to the yellow area
which is the burst ions so you're always
gonna be able to burst up to 3,000 ions
and you're going to be accumulating at
your baseline ions if you go above 1
terabyte in size the baseline
performance of the volume exceeds the
burst capability so that is the
performance of the volume so if you were
to create for example a 3 terabyte
volume you will get 10,000 ions there is
no burst at that point because you've
already exceeded what the burst
capability would be so let me try and
take a moment to explain how the gp2
bursting works I think it's really cool
I will say that it's a little hard to
understand the first time but once you
understand it you realize it's a very
powerful capability
will enable you to size volumes for the
data you're storing rather than trying
to achieve a certain level of IELTS so
the first thing is every single volume
created in gp2 is given a burst bucket
allocation of 5.4 million ions and once
you've got that burst bucket you start
accumulating because the volume has been
initialized or created so if we had a
volume that was a hundred gigabytes we'd
be accumulating at three hundred I ops
every second as well and then you can
spend at whatever your baseline up to
3,000 or higher on your baseline I opted
out of that volume so in this example
with we use a one terabyte for the size
we can spend at three thousand I ops out
of that volume and it'll still be
accumulating as it comes in now a lot of
people associate the term burst was
something that is very quick very
instantaneous a firework going off or
something like that it's actually not
the case with gp2 so we have a very very
low percentage of volumes they're
actually exceeding or emptying their
burst bucket and in general what that
when that happens it's typically people
who are testing for that scenario
they're testing to see how long it takes
for them to empty the gp2 verse bucket
rather than actually production use of
the volume and just to highlight this
this is a graph of the size of a
general-purpose volume gp2 and the time
it would take to fully empty the I
oberst bucket if you were running at
3,000 I ops all of the time so flat out
and that's actually pretty hard to do
that's a lot of I ops to be running
through a volume just to give you an
example or highlight one here so if you
had a 500 gigabyte volume it would take
you 60 minutes so a full hour of flat
out not once dropping below 3000 IELTS
to actually empty the burst bucket in
that volume and the reality is when you
take a look at how systems actually
operated practice there's no way it runs
flat out for 60 minutes it's going to
drop down a couple of times and when it
drops down it's accumulating more than
its using so that burst buckets not
emptying so a little bit of an example
of how general-purpose volumes work or
at least what the difference they're
making for
workloads and applications so if I take
an example of a Windows boot volume
they're typically about 30 gigabytes in
size so the burst bucket is
automatically 5.4 million I ups at the
beginning it's going to get a baseline
performance of 100 I ups because we said
there's a 100 I ops floor on the volumes
but it will be accumulating at 90 IELTS
per second because it's a 32 gigabyte
volume 3 cups per gigabyte this volume
could burst for 30 minutes at 3,000 I
ops now windows typically boots a little
bit slower than Linux but it definitely
doesn't take 30 minutes to boot a volume
and so what this means is the big time
of Windows is substantially accelerated
and so we did some testing to try and
highlight this and there's two specific
OSS I wanted to highlight so the first
one is windows so if we take a magnetic
volume for the boot volume we're
typically seeing an access time so
that's the time where you could get in
and start using that instance of seven
minutes and 16 seconds when we move the
volume to gp2 and when I say move the
volume to gp2 that means literally if
you're in the console choosing gp2 you
don't need to do anything else if you're
working in an altar scaling group
updating the block device mapping so it
picks up gp2 you don't need to change
anything fundamental in your application
nothing in Windows has changed to make
this happen it's almost 40% quicker to
boot that Windows instance the second
one I want to highlight is the fact it
does also help speed up the Linux
instance the reason I call out sent OS
specifically here is the scent OS 6 in
the marketplace actually defaults to
magnetic so if you're launching sent OS
from the marketplace and you're not
changing the boot device as it launches
in an ultra scaling group or from the
console if it hasn't popped up to tell
you then you're actually putting on two
magnetic rather than gp2 and you can see
it also makes a substantial speed up in
boot time for the linux instance a
second example I want to give is going
to highlight the fact that you can
achieve substantial performance from a
GP to volume in fact similar if not more
from a burst perspective than you would
with provisioned ions however it's a
much lower cost in the environment now
if in the past you'd been building a
solution and you looked at magnetic and
thought that wasn't the right one for my
date
bass I should probably go news provision
I ops so you created a provision die ops
volume maybe a terabyte once you've
created that volume you're working on it
no problem at all gp2 launches so now
you have a system where you have an
option to maybe use a different volume
type what would that mean for the
environment what I want to highlight
here is that if we were to go from a
4,000 IELTS vol.2 just a 3,000 I ops one
terabyte volume with gp2 which
substantially reduce our costs and now
what I would typically be doing here is
looking at something like a test dev
database it's not likely our production
database we're going to move on to gp2
that's what provision I ox is targeted
for but if it's a dev test environment
gp2 is probably a good fit for this and
it's going to substantially reduce our
costs you could also if you wanted to be
a little creative and this is one of the
capabilities you always have is to build
the volume configuration how you want
you could take 2 500 gigabyte volumes
each volume has a burst bucket of 3,000
so now our baseline performance would be
3,000 I ups and our burst bucket would
be 6,000 so we actually be able to burst
in IELTS much higher than we would have
been able to use with provision dials
his provision gives us exactly what
we're looking for so we would actually
get a boost in performance for a dev
test database so some guidelines for
sizing how should you go about sizing or
how should you go about building and
setting up gp2 volumes so for generic
boot volumes you know developer volumes
or just data volumes that you want to
attach two instances provision the
number of gigabytes your application
requires we don't expect and I hope you
don't have to over provision a volume
you should just be creating the size of
volume you want and I'll talk a little
bit around how you can move and migrate
from volumes so you can easily get to
another volume if you want for database
apps typically you want to calculate
what you think the baseline I ops for
your application is probably easier said
than done but worth the effort I think
if you calculate the baseline ions you
then should be able to take those IELTS
divided by three and it should tell you
roughly the number of gigabytes you want
to provision for that volume the beauty
of gp2 for a database application like
this is it's going to handle things like
rebuilding indexes loading tables with
the burst bucket so you're not going to
be sizing the volume for the peak
you're going to be sizing the volume for
your baselines your steady state on that
database so digging into our second
volume type is provisioned ions
provisioned I ops or P I opsys we turn
tend to call it internally is really
focused at tier 1 databases
mission-critical applications
applications where you have a certain
level of performance you need to be able
to deliver in your application and you
want to know exactly what that
performers will be and have a certain
level of consistency that goes with it
so you can go up to 20,000 I ups on a
provision I ups volume so it's twice the
number of I ups you can do with an EBS
GP to the throughput is also twice so it
goes up to 320 megabytes a second so
it's a very substantial amount of threw
poop again the latency because all of
our volumes the gp2 and NPI ops our SSD
back single digit millisecond latency
performance consistency is three nines
of performance consistency so three
nines is what we're attempting to
deliver of the IELTS consistency and we
target like I said mission critical
workloads with this this is when you
think about having a database
architecture then you go to do a select
on the table and if it stalls for any
moments at all and that's not acceptable
to your architecture provision I ops is
the volume type that you should be
looking at for that little bit of how we
understand or how you can size the
volume so obviously volumes go up to 16
terabytes both for gp2 and also for
provisioned I ops again I don't believe
this is the scale so an EBS engineer
will be confused by we don't do it to
scale but what you can do here is with a
very small amount of storage go to a
huge amount of I ops so one of the big
fundamental differences between gp2 and
provisioned I ops is the ratio of I ops
2 gigabytes so in gp2 is 3i ops per
gigabyte on provision I ops it's 3030 I
ops per gigabyte so you can see here
they easily within I think it's 677 if I
remember off the top of my head you'll
be able to provision 20,000 I ops into a
volume so it's very easy to have a lot
of performance in a small amount of
storage space
last but by no means least EVs magnetic
volumes so EBS magnetic volumes are
typically used for data that's in
frequently accessed if you have a need
to have something that's online so you
you have a system where it must have
data on a file system you can't archive
it off because no one's willing to agree
to the archives you know changes in the
application but you need to have it
online we typically think magnetic is a
great fit for this so it's a lot cheaper
because if you're not using it it's only
five cents per gigabyte per month today
and so it's a very low cost solution to
making sure you have online data access
slightly different performance
characteristics than our SSD based
volumes so about 40 to 90 megabytes a
second and the latency varies for
reading rights based on the media type
so a bit of a summary of all the
different volumes and the capabilities
these are obligatory slides so that
everyone can get a picture of them when
take them home everything goes on
SlideShare folks you can get it
afterwards the big things I'd like to
call out here is the fact that the
latency for SSD based volumes is
consistent so designed for single digit
millisecond latency one to two
milliseconds our general purpose volumes
are very very easy to price and very
easy to understand it's 10 gigabyte ten
cents per gigabyte per month and all of
our GPS you are all of our SSD volumes
go up to 16 terabytes now so why have we
made general-purpose SSD the default why
did we do that and so if you haven't
noticed or if you're a new user on the
platform and you grabbed an ec2 instance
and dry and launched an ami has magnetic
as the boot volume we actually pop a
little dialogue up on the on the console
and say hey we notice you're not using
gp2 would you like to make this the
default and we've worked very hard to
make GP to the default on all of the
Amazon Linux armies and worked very hard
with the windows team to get windows as
using GP to the high baseline level of
performance is the first aspect so we
can deliver a really high level of
baseline performance for our customers
and
environment at a consistent cost the
bursting capability we think is very
important it enables your applications
to not be bound by a baseline of
performance and get a lot more
capability out of it the single the
single capacity based pricing dimension
so the ability for you to no longer have
to calculate how many I up Sam I going
to be doing vs how long is the volume
going to be created and we've managed to
in our opinion get an attractive price
gigabyte price I ops density ratio so a
little bit of a takeaway here always use
GPU or general-purpose SSD volumes or
volumes for boot if you have a mis that
you've built up if you're a longer-term
user on AWS and you have a catalog of
armies which are designed for all the
different application stacks that you
run you should take a moment in check to
see whether those am is are actually
using gp2 by default on those volumes if
it's in an auto scaling group you can
just change the block device mapping you
don't need to go in and change the am I
specifically but if it's an ami and it's
EBS backs it's very easy to reregister
that just take the same snapshot and
reregister choosing gp2 this time to
launch it so how do you migrate on to GP
two volumes how do you get on to
general-purpose volumes so you can
change the volume type at launch so if
you're launching something and you want
to use a different type of volume the
next time you can just change that to
launch you can use EBS snapshots to
easily get from one volume type to
another and it's not just GP to you can
go from provisioned I ops 2 gp2 or
magnetic to GP too it's very easy to do
that so when you create an EBS snapshot
DBS snapshot doesn't have any
relationship with the volume type
underneath so you can then take that
snapshot and create a new volume with
the new volume type that you want to use
you might be able to resize your file
system so if you've over provisioned in
the past maybe you had a volume that was
larger because you felt that that would
give you the performance you were
looking for you might be able to resize
that when you go to a new volume type
and when you're trying to work out what
size is you're looking at use our
general purpose sizing guide so
snapshots snapshots are really important
snapshots are an aspect of the platform
that enable you to introduce the concept
of backups to your volume but also
introduced the
sets of disaster recovery by having
volume data in another region or easily
sharing volume data through the form of
a snapshot with other accounts or other
teams so you can have a dev test
environment and once you're done you can
take a snapshot from that dev test
environment share it with the production
team and they can use that to move into
their environment so they're more
durable than an EBS volume and that's
because they're stored in Amazon s3
that's eleven nines of durability and
I'm going to talk a little bit around
what happens how do we make a snap shots
you can get a feel for what we're doing
their incremental meaning their space
efficient so the fact the first snapshot
is a copier clone of the whole volume
and so we copy that volume as is and
then you only pay for what you actually
use in snapshots so if you create a
second snapshot so you created a first
snapshot on say 100 gigabyte volume and
then you change 5 gigabytes of data on
that volume and create a second snapshot
we only snapshot 5 gigabytes of data so
it's very very efficient to make your
snapshots and also very very
cost-effective they're completely
independent of availability zones so
they live in the EBS snapshot service so
it's part of the EBS service overall and
they can be recreated as volumes in any
AZ or any region and they can be copied
across regions so I wanted to take a
moment and explain what happens when we
make an EBS snapshot it's not really
black magic it's just worth while
understanding how we do this so an EBS
volume because block storage is made up
of blocks ok only blocks written to our
marked as updated so we keep track of a
volume and we go hey you wrote to this
block you wrote to this block we keep
track of that that's part of the EBS
service that enables us to also not back
up blocks that haven't been been written
to at the point of snapshot we make a
list of all of the blocks to copy to s3
or to back up to s3 that's the first
thing we do then we copy the snapshot
blocks up to s3 the minute we've made a
list of the blocks that we want to copy
that's when the API returns and says
snapshot creating at that point you can
start using your application again there
is no need to wait for a snapshot to
complete we've already tracked exactly
what walks we need to copy back up the
s3 to make the snapshot so that means
that you can do snapshots in a matter of
seconds you can cue ask your volume if
required call the easy to create
snapshot call and when that snapshot
comes back as that the API call returns
and the status will be creating that's
it you don't need to wait for it to be
completed and I wanted to highlight that
because I've actually come across
customers who were concerned that they
had to wait for the completed status
before the volume snapshot was actually
ready to to move forward and so when you
create a future snapshot we just keep
track of the blocks that have been
updated since the last snapshot so
that's the magic part of it we always
know at what point blocks were updated
in whether they were updated before or
after the last snapshot and then we only
copy those blocks up into s3 so the
tagging of snapshots tagging please tag
tag tag so snapshots are even worse if
you don't tag them because then they're
just sitting there and you don't notice
them in at all because they don't turn
up in your volume list for attaching so
snapshot should be tagged as much as
possible with data that will help you do
management of snapshots so we'll give
you some examples here you can choose
any snapshot tag you want and it can be
relative irrelevant to your application
rather than than what we're suggesting
um some of them will actually
automatically happen so volume ID i
believe automatically appears as a tag
in there so we keep track of what volume
it came from so you can do that but you
should track things like whether their
daily or weekly zor whether they belong
to a particular application stack it's
the web stack or the database component
and definitely want to tag as much as
possible because once you've done
tagging you can go into the AWS console
and if you haven't noticed the AWS
console has got a really improved search
capability now where you can start
typing in tags you can do ands and ORS
and build up a whole list so you can do
snapshots of tag application web stack
type daily and it will bring back all of
those snapshots so a couple of tools I
want to recommend so customers we talk
to our customers as much as possible and
these are the two tools that I thought
so stood out the most
of tools that customers are using to
manage snapshots and these are tools
they're using to manage the making of a
snapshot on a schedule so scared Lee and
then also easy to consistent snapshot
it's a github project or an open-source
projects enroute to do qsu of a volume
and so when you want to make database
snapshots you truly want to make sure
that the volume is got all of the i/o
written down before you make the
snapshot these tools just make it
substantially easier for you to make
snapshots they're going to add tags
appropriately if that's one of the
things they do and they're going to
enable you to do things like schedule a
snapshot to happen every day or every
week so a little bit more about EBS
optimized a little bit about EBS
optimized instances so everything I've
covered so far is about the EBS volumes
about the EBS snapshots but because we
run inside ec2 there's some properties
of ec2 which are quite important to
understand as well and so an EBS
optimized instance is an instance that
has dedicated network bandwidth
allocated to EBS traffic so because its
network block storage we have a network
component between us and the EBS servers
from an easy to perspective and with EBS
optimized you're able to get a dedicated
amount of bandwidth allocated to your
instance so that if you've got a heavy
application stack you're running the
traffic to the application stack is not
contending for data on the EBS traffic
our instances things like the eight
extra large instances actually support
all the way up to 10 gigabits per second
of network traffic and there's a maximum
number of I opsin and throughput on each
instance and so this number is much
larger than what you can do with a
single volume but when you start to put
lots more volumes on there you're going
to you find it the instance itself is
got some challenges and i'll make a
shout out to the next session on the
performance we'll talk a little bit more
in that session around how to understand
whether it's your instance which is the
bottleneck or if it's the volume which
is maxed out on the threw poop so EBS
encryption
so EBS encryption is a great addition to
the EBS service it's for most customers
the ability to tick a box and have
volumes encrypted so they can then move
forward without having to worry about
how it's done and what happens to the
volumes so why are customers encrypting
data volumes some of the primary reasons
we see is protection of data so
protecting against you know unauthorized
access of a physical volume it could
also help with your compliance efforts
so you may have some workloads that
require encrypted data and it's very
easy to use EBS encryption for that why
we're seeing customers move towards EBS
based encryption is ease of use in the
operating cost reductions so there's
plenty of open source tools you can use
things like DM crypt and build your own
encryption on top of it or third-party
tools like Trend Micro but they
typically come from an open source
perspective with quite a lot of
operational overhead you don't want to
be building your own key management
infrastructure or dealing with key
rotation in that and in the third party
aspect again that they can add an
additional layer of costs that might be
prohibitive for certain applications so
how does EBS encryption work so the
first thing is EBS encryption is maximum
mated with or paired with the AWS key
management service so it's a managed
service that simplifies creation control
rotation of encryption keys in your
applications and when we say in your
applications that means your own
applications or you can have kms provide
keys to other parts of the AWS services
such as EBS so it's integrated with AWS
server-side encryption and EBS should be
listed as second in there server-side
encryption means that the data is being
encrypted on the server sides are not on
the client side when you're connecting
to although there's one really unique
capability of EBS I want to highlight
here and I probably should have a slide
so we can dive into a little bit deeper
but EBS encryption incurs on the ec2
host so if we we think a little bit
around how the architecture of the the
environment looks we have an ec2
instance that runs on an ec2 host and
then we have an EBS volume which is
exposed to the ec2 instance and it's
coming from the EBS
service which is sitting somewhere else
inside AWS separate from the ec2
instance that encryption occurs at the
host level what that means is that
encrypted data goes all the way across
the network and it's in the volume as
well so we have encryption on the wire
and encryption at rest with with AWS
encryption now it's also integrated with
our client-side encryption so folks who
want to dive deeper into the encryption
that you can integrate it with the SDKs
or with the dynamic line and it's
integrated with cloud trail and this is
very important for people who are
working on compliance so cloud trail is
going to track all of the use of the KMS
api's so when people are accessing a
volume where people are creating a key
or people are sharing a key with another
part of the application stack so people
can access the data this is being logged
in cloud trails so you can keep track of
who's used it and where and it's
available in all commercial regions
except China today so a little bit about
encryption keys and how they relate to
EBS and so you should be able to see in
here the second key from the bottom is
AWS EBS and it's got the little orange
or yellow AWS icon beside it what this
is is what we would refer to as the
default customer master key and so
there's also in here a couple of other
keys highly confidential critical data
so when you create keys you can have
keys for your own application stack and
then you can use them or services that
support kms will automatically create
what we call a default customer master
key now with a default customer master
key this is typically for people who
just need encryption and they're not too
worried about where the keys are going
to be managed and what's going to be
what's going to be the policies around
those keys a default customer master key
is only in your account it's only
accessible for your resources but you
don't need to specifically select that
the key name when you're going to do
corruption so give you an example here
how easy it is to encrypt with EBS if
you're going to be launching a new
volume or creating a new volume it's a
checkbox encrypt volume so once you've
checked that you're ready to go and then
you can choose a key and so in this
example we're actually using the
critical data key now what this means is
that key is going to be associated with
that volume and also any future
snapshots of snapshots are going to be
encrypted by default because it's a copy
of the volume data and the volume is
encrypted and then we can actually do
custom things like he rotation on this
and we can manage what instances or what
users are what groups have access to the
critical data key and that will actually
control who has access to that volume
within your environment so a little bit
of summary of what we've covered in the
session so far so start out with
selecting the right volumes for your
workloads okay I think it's really
important to understand we have three
volume types we think gp2 is the default
for almost all applications if you've
got a mission-critical workload you know
tier one database and application is
very very dependent on consistent I oh
it's provisioned I ops and magnetic is
still a really good choice for volumes
that are in frequently accessed or data
that's in frequently accessed select the
right instance for your workload so when
I mentioned EBS optimize make sure
you're choosing the right instance
something I didn't touch upon which I'll
dive and a little bit is if you grab a
two terabyte provisioned I ops volume
with 20,000 I outside and you attach it
to a t2 micro it will not do 20,000 I
ops and it will not do 320 megabytes a
second the t2 micro instance is a very
very small instance it's a micro
instance and so it's sized appropriately
and the resources of that instance means
it's can't drive a really large volume
like that take snapshots take snapshots
as often and as much as you can that
would be really great and then use
encryption if needed it's very very easy
it's a checkbox you ticket encryption
turned on and you're ready to go and
with that I'd like to thank you very
much for our overview of EBS or deep
dive in EBS